feat(core): rewrite input and output docs (#21269)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/recipes/running-tasks/customizing-outputs.md

---
title: Cache Results with Outputs
description: 'Learn how to optimize what Nx restores from the cache'
---

# Cache Results with Outputs

Whenever Nx runs a task which can be cached, it will store the results of that task in the cache.

> If nothing has changed, when Nx runs the task again, it will restore the results from the cache instead of spending the time to run the task again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Nx runs the task again, if nothing has changed, it will restore the results from the cache instead of spending the time to run the task again.
```

## Types of Outputs

### Terminal Output

The terminal output of a task is replayed whenever a task is pulled from cache. Nx will always cache the terminal output of tasks which are cached.

### Output Files

> Targets can define which tasks produce as a result. Nx will cache these files so that it can restore them when the task is pulled from cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Targets can define which files are produced when a task is run. Nx will cache these files so that it can restore them when the task is pulled from cache.
```

  "{workspaceRoot}/test-results.xml", // A file
  "{projectRoot}/dist/libs/mylib/**/*.js", // A glob pattern matching a set of files
  "{options.outputPath}", // A path defined in the options of a task
]
```

All outputs must be prefixed with either `{projectRoot}` or `{workspaceRoot}` to distinguish where the path is resolved from.

If an output file or directory does not exist, it will be ignored.

## Viewing Outputs of a Task

The outputs of a task can be viewed by adding the `--graph` flag to the command:

```shell
nx build myapp --graph
```

This will open the task graph in the browser. Clicking on a task will open a tooltip with a link to see details about the project.
View the project's configuration to see a list of the outputs which are defined for each target.

## Configuring Outputs

Outputs of a task are configured in the `outputs` array on the target. This can be done in several places:

- Nx Plugins often infer outputs for tasks which run other tools.
- The `outputs` array can be configured in the `targetDefaults` for a set of targets.
- The `outputs` array can be configured for a specific target in the project configuration file.

> {% tabs %}

Reviewer: These tabs should be headings

{% tab label="Nx Plugins" %}

> Nx plugins specified in the `plugins` array in `nx.json` will define outputs for the tasks which it infers to be cacheable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nx plugins specified in the `plugins` array in `nx.json` will define outputs for the tasks which are inferred to be cacheable.
```

> Often, the outputs of a tool are defined either in its configuration file or as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, the outputs of a tool are defined either in its configuration file.
```

Nx Plugins use these configuration files to infer the `outputs` of a task so you do not need to define it again explicitly.
If you use targets inferred by Nx Plugins, you will likely not need to configure `outputs` yourself.

For example, the `@nx/webpack/plugin` plugin, will load the `webpack.config.js` file and use the `output` defined there as the `outputs` for the Nx task

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Workspace (nx.json)" %}

[Target Defaults](/reference/nx-json#target-defaults) defined in `nx.json` apply to a set of targets. Defining `outputs` here one time will apply to a set of similar targets.

```jsonc {% fileName="nx.json" highlightLines=[4] %}
{
  "targetDefaults": {
    "build": {
      "outputs": ["{workspaceRoot}/dist/{projectRoot}"]
    }
  }
}
```

The above specifies that all targets with the name `build` will use the `outputs` specified.

> This configuration will override any `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins as you have more direct control in your `nx.json` than the behavior of the Nx Plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration will override any `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins.
```

This configuration may be overridden by configuration in project-specific configuration files.

> The configuration defined here is not merged in anyway with any `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins or defined for a specific project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entries in the `outputs` array are never merged when the configuration is overridden.  The entire `outputs` array is overwritten with the new value.
```

> To override the `outputs` of a task, start by copying over the entire array shown when [viewing the project details](#viewing-the-inputs-of-a-task) and then add/remove inputs as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override the `outputs` of a task, start by copying over the entire array shown when [viewing the project details](#viewing-the-inputs-of-a-task) and then add/remove outputs as needed.
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Project Level (project.json)" %}

The `project.json` file defines the configuration for a specific project. Defining `outputs` of a target here will apply only to tasks of the specific project.

```jsonc {% fileName="apps/myreactapp/project.json" highlightLines=[5] %}
{
  "name": "myreactapp",
  "targets": {
    "build": {

>       "inputs": ["production", "^production"]

Reviewer: Use outputs here

    }
  }
}
```

> The above specifies that the `build` target of the `myreactapp` project will use the `inputs` specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above specifies that the `build` target of the `myreactapp` project will use the `outputs` specified.
```

> This configuration will override any `inputs` inferred by Nx Plugins as well as any `inputs` defined in the [Target Defaults](/reference/nx-json#target-defaults) in the `nx.json` file as this is more specific than those other methods of configuring `inputs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration will override any `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins as well as any `outputs` defined in the [Target Defaults](/reference/nx-json#target-defaults) in the `nx.json` file as this is more specific than those other methods of configuring `outputs`.
```

> The configuration defined here is not merged in anyway with the `inputs` inferred by Nx Plugins or defined in target defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entries in the `outputs` array are never merged when the configuration is overridden.  The entire `outputs` array is overwritten with the new value.
```

> To override the `inputs` of a task, start by copying over the entire array shown when [viewing the project details](#viewing-the-outputs-of-a-task) and then add/remove outputs as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override the `outputs` of a task, start by copying over the entire array shown when [viewing the project details](#viewing-the-outputs-of-a-task) and then add/remove outputs as needed.
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Project Level (package.json)" %}

The `package.json` file may include configuration for a specific Nx project. Defining `outputs` of a target here will apply only to tasks of the specific project.

```jsonc {% fileName="apps/myreactapp/package.json" highlightLines=[9] %}
{
  "name": "myreactapp",
  "dependencies": {},
  "devDependencies": {},
  ...
  "nx": {
    "targets": {
      "build": {
        "outputs": ["{workspaceRoot}/dist/myapp}"]
      }
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

The above specifies that the `build` target of the `myreactapp` project will use the `outputs` specified.
This configuration will override any `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins as well as any `outputs` defined in the [Target Defaults](/reference/nx-json#target-defaults) in the `nx.json`file as this is more specific than those other methods of configuring `outputs`.

> The configuration defined here is not merged in anyway with the `outputs` inferred by Nx Plugins or defined in target defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entries in the `outputs` array are never merged when the configuration is overridden.  The entire `outputs` array is overwritten with the new value.
```
